docs: improve Custom Elements and Recommended Practices page; Move Scrolling to own page (#DVRL-76, #DVRL-77) (#65)
askui/askui-dev-docs: docs/docs/general/03-Element Selection/recommended-practices.md

---

# Recommended Practices
On this page you will learn the different methods to detect elements. Every method has its strength and weaknesses.

You will learn:

* What methods AskUI offers and their strengths and weaknesses
* Use case based recommendations on what method to use

## Methods of Detecting Elements

* `Custom element`
  * Detect elements with a screenshot
* `Text`
  * Finds an element of class text. If you pass an argument `text('hello')` it also uses text-recognition
  * **Limitation**: Sometimes dependent on resolution, font and linebreaks
* `Button, textfield, checkbox, ...` [all classes](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/button.md)
  * Finds an element of the class
* `Icon`
  * Finds elements of type icon and then filters for _specific_ icon
  * Detects icons reliably

>   * **Limitation**: Naming of icons inconsistent

Author: Should we remove this as this will be removed shortly?

* `Matching`
  * Natural language description.
  * Works on logos and images with text
  * **Limitation**: Only finds the best matching element

## Text Detection Fails
This section describes typical problems you will run into when you try to detect text and provide **solutions**.

### Single Character Not Detected as Text
If a single character does not get detected you have two options depending on the use case:

* Use a custom element if the single character is not enclosed in another class like `button``

> * Target the element that contains the single character. You _must_ use [relational selectors](../../api/04-Relations/above.md) for this as the enclosing class is not specific enough to select the correct element (you may have more than one textfield for example).

Author: Good point! I did not think of this scenario somehow. When you are on the Google start page for example you can use `textfield()` and always target the correct one as it is not important in which one you (browser bar or search field) you type your query.

 *  Second element: Aeb567878
 *
 *  Target the first element
 */
await aui.click().text('1lKBASDF').exec();
```

---

## Detection Fails on a Different Machine / in Pipeline
When the resolution changes for a workflow run on a different machine or inside a Continuous integration pipeline for example, you may encounter the following problems:

<!-- vale off -->
* Text linebreaks and text detection fails: See [Text Detection Fails Because of Linebreaks](#text-detection-fails-because-of-linebreaks)
* Elements change shape or color during a workflow run: See [Color of Same Element Changes](#color-of-same-element-changes) and [Duplicate Elements](#duplicate-elements)
<!-- vale oon -->

---

## Detection Is Flaky or Mislabeled

### Flaky Detection Across Runs
Visual detection of elements is highly sensitive to changes in your UI, even if they are small. For example a button that you target may fail randomly on a workflow run every now and then:

```typescript
await aui.click().button().withText('Sign in').exec();
```

You can do three things about this:

1. Make the element-description more specific, for example with [relational selectors](../../api/04-Relations/above.md)

> 2. Add a custom element with `or()` as a fallback

Reviewer: I think we should always link to custom element and the relation like you did it about for `Relations`. Saw this a couple of times in the text.

> 3. Combine the two methods

Reviewer: What does that mean?

All three of them you can find in the following code:

```typescript
// Make element-description more specific
await aui.click().button().withText('Sign in')
                 .leftOf().button().withText('Login')
                 .exec();

// Fallback to custom element
await aui.click().button().withText('Sign in')
                 .or()
                 .customElement({
                     customImage: 'custom_elements/signin.button.png'
                   })
                 .exec();

// Add additional element-description and a custom element as fallback
await aui.click().button().withText('Sign in');
                 .or().button().containsText('Sign')
                 .or().customElement({
                     customImage: 'custom_elements/signin.button.png'
                   })
                 .exec();

> ```

Reviewer: I would combine the code snippets directly with the corresponding workaround description so that the reader does not have to keep the whole block in mind or jump between blocks.

> ### Icon Detection Fails or Labels Wrong Icon Name

Reviewer: Why not simply?
```suggestion
### Icon Detection Fails
```

Detecting icons correctly is difficult because there are millions of icons available. You typically run into two problems:

> * Icon is not detected at all

Reviewer: You mean, detected in one run vs. not detected in another run? As we are still under flaikiness?

> * Icon name changes from run to run: `Search` becomes `Calendar` for example

Reviewer: Nice classification of the problems.

> Our recommended approach in both cases is to use a custom element instead. In case the icon is detected reliably, but only the name changes, you can alsso use a more specific element-description together with [relational selectors](../../api/04-Relations/above.md) to select the icon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our recommended approach in both cases is to use a custom element instead. In case the icon is detected reliably, but only the name changes, you can also use a more specific element-description together with [relational selectors](../../api/04-Relations/above.md) to select the icon:
```

Author: Good catch. Wonder why the linter did not find this...

```typescript
// Custom element instead of icon
await aui.click().customElement({
    customImage: 'custom_elements/file.icon.png'
  }).exec();

// Make element-description more specific
// with a relational selector
await aui.click().icon()
                 .leftOf().text('File')

>                  .exec();

Reviewer: I don't think making the element-description more specific is what helps here but rather that you found another way (text) which is more stable to describe the icon instead of using the icon name.

> ```

Reviewer: Again, I would go recommendation by recommendation (with example each) instead of blocks where we join multiple recommendations and multiple examples.

### Button Not Detected as Element
Sometimes a button is not detected as one. Usually this is because of low contrast or the button lacking typical characteristics of a button.

The only thing you can do is to use a custom element:

```typescript
// Custom element instead of button().withText()
await aui.click().customElement({
                     customImage: 'custom_elements/signout.button.png'
                   })
                   .exec();
```

---

<!-- vale off -->
## Color of Same Element Changes
<!-- vale on -->
AskUI can not detect color (yet). But you can use two custom elements together with `or()` to prepare for a change of color of the element:

```typescript

> await aui.click().customElement({customImage: 'custom_elements/red.text.png'})

Reviewer: Or you use the default grayscale of custom element which can also work in these cases.

                   .or()
                   .customElement({customImage: 'custom_elements/blue.text.png'}).exec()
```

---

## Duplicate Elements
Sometimes you run into duplicate elements on an UI and you want to target a specific one. You need to make your element-description more specific in this case by doing one or all of the following:

* Add [relational selectors](../../api/04-Relations/above.md)
* Add more element-descriptions with `and()`

```typescript
// Add relational selector to custom element
await aui.click().customElement({
                     customImage: 'custom_elements/submit.button.png'
                   }).leftOf().button().withText('Cancel')

// More specificity with and() and additional element-description
await aui.click().customElement({
                     customImage: 'custom_elements/submit.button.png'
                   }).leftOf().button().withText('Cancel')
                   .and()
                   .button().withText('Submit').above().text('Welcome')
                   .exec();

> ```

Reviewer: Same, let's not do multiple blocks.

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-this-should-not-be-split-up.png)

> * If you need to match the exact-text, Use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you need to match the exact-text, use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md).
```

## Detection Is Flaky or Mislabeled

### Flaky Detection Across Runs
Visual detection of elements is highly sensitive to changes in your UI, even if they are small. For example a text that you target may fail randomly on a workflow run every now and then. For example in the following picture there is a button with a `4`:

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-button-with-4-detected.png)

You can target it like this:

```typescript
await aui.click().button().withText('4').exec();
```

> But when you change the screen resolution a little bit then the `4` is not recognized any more:

Reviewer: As our recognition capabilities are going to change in the future:

```suggestion
But when you change the screen resolution, the `4` may not be recognized anymore:
```

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-button-with-4-undetected.png)

You can do three things about this:

> 1. Make the element-description more stable, for example with a [relational selector](../../api/04-Relations/above.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make the element-description more stable, e.g., with a [relation](../../api/04-Relations/above.md):
```

                 .exec();
```

### Icon Detection Fails

> Detecting icons correctly is difficult because there are millions of icons available. You run into the problem that an icon is not detected sometimes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detecting icons correctly is difficult because there are millions of icons available. Therefore, you may run into the problem that an icon is not detected sometimes:
```

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-icon-not-recognized.png)

Our recommended approach is to use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md) instead.

```typescript
// Custom element to target the microwave icon
// from the image above
await aui.click().customElement({
    customImage: 'custom_elements/microwave.icon.png'
  }).exec();
```

### Button Not Detected as Element
Sometimes a button is not detected as one. Usually this is because of low contrast or the button lacking typical characteristics of a button.

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-button-not-recognized.png)

> The only thing you can do is to use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md):

Reviewer: Or use the text/label within the button if there is any

* Use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md) with `imageCompareFormat` set to `grayscale` (default value)

```typescript
// Use custom element default
await aui.click().customElement({
  customImage: 'custom_elements/light.button.png',
                 }).exec();
```

* Use two [custom elements](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md) together with [or()](../../api/04-Relations/or.md) and `imageCompareFormat` set to `RGB`

```typescript
// Use two elements that compare with color
await aui.click().customElement({
  customImage: 'custom_elements/light.button.png',
                   imageCompareFormat: 'RGB'
                 })
                 .or()
                 .customElement({
                   customImage: 'custom_elements/dark.button.png',
                    imageCompareFormat: 'RGB'
                    }).exec();
```

---

## Duplicate Elements
Sometimes you run into duplicate elements on an UI and you want to target a specific one. You need to make your element-description more specific in this case by doing one or all of the following:

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-duplicate-button.png)

> * Add a [relational selector](../../api/04-Relations/above.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a [relation](../../api/04-Relations/above.md)
```

![](images/recommended-practices/recommended-practices-button-not-recognized.png)

> If the button is not detected but the text or label inside it you can target the text element. Assume the `1` is recognized as a `text`-element in the image above. Then you can target the button like this, if there is no other `text`-element `1` on the screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the button is not detected but the text or label inside it, you can target the text element. Assume the `1` is recognized as a `text`-element in the image above. Then you can target the button like this if there is no other `text`-element `1` on the screen:
```

```typescript
await aui.click().text('1').exec();
```

> In the case above the only thing you can do is to use a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As not even the `1` is detected as `text` in the case above, you cannot use this approach. In these cases, you can try out using a [custom element](../../api/03-Element-Descriptions/customelement.md) instead:
```
